Environment Setup Assignment

#Dart & Flutter

1. What is the first step for installing Dart on a Windows machine?

       B) Download the Dart SDK 

            After downloading the SDK, you proceed to update the PATH and perform other setup steps.

   
2. Which command verifies the Dart installation on macOS?

       D) dart --version

          This command will display the installed version of Dart, confirming that it is properly installed.

    
3. What is the next step after downloading and extracting the Flutter SDK on Linux?

       B) Update your PATH 

          This allows you to run Flutter commands from the terminal. After updating the PATH, you can then run Flutter Doctor to check for any dependencies needed.
    

4. What command is used to run a newly created Flutter app?

       C) flutter run 

            This command builds and launches the app on an emulator or connected device.


#Python Installation

1. What is the first step to install Python on a Windows system?

       B) Download Python from the official website 

            After downloading the installer, you can then run it to proceed with the installation.


2. Which option should you ensure is checked during Python installation on Windows?

      C) Add Python to PATH

          This option allows you to run Python from the command line without needing to specify the full path to the Python executable, making it easier to use Python and its associated tools.


3. How do you verify Python installation on any system?

      A) By running python --version 

          To verify Python installation on any system, run the command mentioned in option A. This command will display the installed Python version on the system.


4. What command is used to install pip on macOS and Linux?

     C) curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py 

          This command downloads the installation script for pip using curl and saves it as get-pip.py. After downloading the script, then run it using Python to install pip on your system.


5. What is the purpose of a virtual environment in Python?

     C) To separate project dependencies and avoid conflicts 

          The purpose of a virtual environment in Python is to create an isolated environment for a Python project. This allows you to separate project dependencies and avoid conflicts between different projects that may require different versions of the same package. Virtual environments help ensure that each project has its own set of dependencies and libraries, without affecting the global Python installation on your system.


#MySQL Installation

1. What is the first step to install MySQL on Windows?

     B) Download MySQL Installer from the official website 

        The first step to install MySQL on Windows is to download the MySQL Installer from the official website. This installer provides a convenient way to download and install MySQL Server, MySQL Workbench, and other MySQL tools and components. Once you have downloaded the MySQL Installer, then proceed with the installation process, which includes setting up MySQL Server, configuring it, and setting up any necessary passwords.


2. What setup type should you choose for a custom MySQL installation?

      D) Custom

          This option allows you to select specific components and features that you want to install, customize the installation directory, and configure advanced settings according to your requirements. Choosing the "Custom" setup type gives more control over the installation process and allows to tailor the MySQL installation to suit specific needs.


3. Which products should you select during the MySQL installation?

      A) MySQL Server, MySQL Workbench, and MySQL Shell 

          During the MySQL installation, it is recommended to select MySQL Server, MySQL Workbench, and MySQL Shell for a comprehensive setup. 

            - MySQL Server is the core component that handles database management and queries.

            - MySQL Workbench is a visual tool for database design, development, and administration.

              - MySQL Shell is a command-line client for MySQL that provides advanced features for database administration and scripting.

Selecting all three products, you will have a complete set of tools for managing your MySQL databases effectively.

         
4. What is the purpose of setting a root password during MySQL installation?

      B) To secure your MySQL installation with a super-secret password 

          The root user in MySQL has super user privileges, allowing them to perform any operation on the database. By setting a strong and secure root password, you prevent unauthorized access to your MySQL server and protect your data from potential security threats. It is important to choose a complex password to ensure the security of your MySQL installation.


5. How do you begin managing your database after installing MySQL?

       B) Launch MySQL Workbench and connect to your MySQL Server 

           After installing MySQL, one of the common ways to begin managing your database is by launching MySQL Workbench, which is a visual tool for database architects, developers, and administrators. You can use MySQL Workbench to connect to your MySQL Server, create and manage databases, run queries, and perform various administrative tasks.   
